OK,
guys.
Now let's have a look at how we can control our check boxes using the value from a cell.
So just to explain this quickly,
what I'm just going to do is just had another one in here.
What are we on check boxes?
I'm just gonna hit one there.
So we have check box 135 I'm just gonna highlight this soul just here home highlights so we
can see which cell we're looking at.
Now,
what we're gonna do is right.
Click this check box and we're gonna choose formatted control from the bottom there.
Now,
what format control allows us to do that?
We can change colon lines,
size protection,
all different things.
But the one we're interested in is the control because we want to be able to control that
particular check box there.
We can see here that we have checked or unchecked.
Sorry.
Unchecked object or mixed.
So let's leave it unchecked for a moment.
And this is the interesting part here,
this cell link.
So what we're gonna do is hit this little box.
We're gonna point to the cell that we've just highlighted and you can see that that cell
reference.
Let me just move that there.
You can see that that cell reference has been populated into the box.
So what we're going to do now is we have linked this check box to sell p 19 on.
We're gonna click.
OK,
now,
that hasn't done anything amazing at the minute.
But what this check box is now doing is checking the value in this cell to decide whether
it's checked or not.
Now,
this is a simple Boolean tested see,
the true,
that is,
it's ticked or it's false and it's not.
So just for a second,
let's just type true hit,
enter and we can see that the check box no is ticked automatically based on the value that
we've entered into this cell.
So if I were to type false,
if I could type false,
that would certainly be a start and hit Enter.
You can no see that the check boxes all ticked so I can just flip between the two on based
on the value in the cell check box are new check boxes automatically ticked or not?
Okay,
so let's have a look at what we do with that over in the data entry screen.
OK,
so we're back in the data entry screen.
And now what we need to do is add a few more options down the bottom.
Just here.
So the options we have our vehicle.
I forgot.
They aren't.
We have vehicle.
We have fuel type of engine sites on the vehicle,
fuel and engine.
Okay.
Now,
what we want to do is link this.
Sell this cell and this cell to the three tick boxes over here.
12 and three on below.
There,
we want to do this.
Sell this cell and this cell to the three tick boxes,
and similarly with the ones below.
We wanna have these cells reference in these bottom three tick boxes.
Okay,
so let's just color those in.
So we know which areas we're working in.
So I've colored those in.
Now,
what we want to do is just For now,
we're just going to type a random selection of true or false is across here.
So I'm just gonna pause while I typed those in.
Okay,
so now we have a bunch of answers in here,
and we have one True and two false is for each particular line tow line up with vehicle
fuel and engine.
So let's go ahead and link those two these particular boxes.
So I'm just gonna flip back to the expenses on the right.
Click our 1st 1 Choose format control.
Hit this little box here.
Flip back today to entry on pick our first cell and hit Enter Onda.
OK,
on there.
We can see the car is being ticked because the value in this cell is true.
So I'm gonna flip back to expenses.
Right.
Click this cell,
choose format control.
Hit this little box here.
Flip back today to entry on.
Choose this cell and hit.
Enter and okay on there.
We can see that that box is blank on.
This box is ticked.
Now,
let's just do the 3rd 1 Format control.
Hit the little box.
Hit data entry on hit that box there.
Enter Andi.
Okay,
so now we can see the car,
Ristic.
A motorbike and cycle are untech,
but let's just go back here and copy.
Fulsome pasted over that one on.
Let's type true in this cell lips are you eat and intact.
Let's have a look at the expenses and see what that's done.
So they go.
That's work perfectly.
No,
we have Karam ticked because the value is false on.
We also have motive icon ticks because the values false but cycle has bean ticked because
the data entry no say is true here.
So again,
I'm just going to pause the recording and I'm going to do the same for the next three and
the three underneath.
Okay,
so now all of these individual check boxes a reference in these particular cells over here
so we can see that we have three.
False is in the first column,
which means we have three unchecked boxes in the middle one.
We have a false a false and the true.
So over here we have UnTech,
unticketed and ticked and similarly,
here we have ticked ticked on,
ticked on.
We have true,
true false.
Okay,
what we want to do is limit the user to those three choices.
So what I'm gonna do is select this cell and I'm gonna come up to the ribbon to the data
section on.
I'm going to choose data validation.
So I'm just gonna left click.
We've already We covered this in level one of this course,
but just in case you've missed level one.
I'm just going to show you how to do it here.
So we've gone to data validation on this box has popped up.
Now,
what we have here at the moment in settings is a low.
Any value on we don't want to allow any value.
What we want to do is have a list.
So I'm just gonna left click list and in here,
I'm just gonna type the options that we want them to have.
So we want them to have car comin.
We want them to have most.
Was it motorbike?
I think it said,
I think said motorbike or cycle.
Andi hits okay on DNO.
Whenever the user selects this particular cell which we're going to color in to match the
other ones,
it's kind of a blue.
We can put that right later if needs.
But whenever the user selects this,
they only have a choice of three answers.
They can either choose car,
they could choose motorbike,
or they could choose cycle.
So we're just going to do the same for the next one,
which is fuel.
So we have petrol,
diesel LPG.
So back today to entry.
Select the screen.
Make sure we're in data hit Data validation.
Onda,
a low list on.
We have petrol.
Come in the zone.
Come in O p g and then hit OK on the game.
We can see.
Let me just call it that in.
So it's the same color on I'll do that with a 2nd 1 Mahlum there.
Ok,
eso here They can only choose car,
motorbike or cycle on.
When they select here,
they can groups.
They can only have petrol,
diesel or LPG on.
We've been to the exactly the same thing in the bottom,
on which is less than 1400 cc.
14 01 to 2000 2000 back.
So I'm just gonna do that now.
I'll pause and I'll be back with you in a second.
Okay,
so now we have all three completed.
So in the 1st 1 they can only choose from these three options in the next one.
They can only choose on these three options on in the bottom one.
They can only choose from these three options.
Okay,
and then that's given us a very useful tool.
now what we're gonna do now,
we have our analysis in these cells just here is we're gonna add a logical test into each
of these cells.
Toe Look at these corresponding cells on report,
either true or false.
Now we've looked a logical testing before,
and we're just going to repeat what we've done.
So in the fair cell,
I'm going to say equals if because it's a logical test,
open brackets on biological test will be.
If this cell equals open quotes,
car close quotes calmer,
then we want to report.
True.
If it's then this doesn't have to be in quotes because it's a Boolean value.
So see the true or false on.
We don't even need to add the second value,
the value if it's false,
because if it isn't true,
it must be false.
There are only two outcomes.
So if B 28 equals the text car returned true.
If not,
it will return false now because we have motorbike in here,
you can see that that's evaluated to false.
But if we choose from our little drop down box and pick car,
you can see that he immediately changes to true.
So now we can look in our expenses form on dsi that the car is being ticked because we
haven't done the other one.
We also have cycle takes,
so we're gonna do exactly the same for these ones over here.
So this time we're going to say,
if ribs Sorry,
I forgot.
Say if if open brackets,
this cell equals open quotes,
motorbike,
close quotes,
comma return true.
Remember,
the true doesn't have to be in quotes because it's literally a Boolean outcome.
True or false.
We don't need to tell it the false because there is no other answer.
It could be if it isn't true.
Hey,
center.
And then we're just gonna do the same with the last one.
So we're going to say if equals open brackets.
The logical test look at this cell equals and I think that's a little cycle.
Close quotes,
comma returned true close quotes and enter.
So now we can see that we have car selected,
which has given us an outcome of true in the 1st 1 False in the second and false in the
third.
So now we can see that we only have Kartik on.
We don't have motor bike or cycle takes,
but if we changed car two motorcycle.
We can see that we now have an evaluation of false,
true false on.
We can come back here on.
We can see that only motorbike has being ticked,
which is exactly right.
So that stops has bean having multiple options ticked in here because we've limited them to
a list in this cell here so they can only select one on.
We have a Boolean test over here that can only evaluate to true or false and therefore tick
only one of the three boxes.
So I'm just gonna pause for a second,
do the rest of them,
and then come back to we can have a look at it working,
OK,
all done.
So no,
If we choose cycle,
we can see we get false falls true on their with who picked the last one,
which is LPG.
We have false,
false True on If we pick the last option greater than 2000 See CC's,
we have false,
false true on that has successfully populated the last three boxes over here.
So no,
If we wanted to change this to car on the centre 12 diesel,
we can see that we have true true true.
Go in diagonally on here we have tick,
tick,
tick going diagonally.
So there you go.
That's how you use tick boxes.
That's how you read values from cells to populate to either tick or antic the check boxes
on that.
Say,
use a limit to list.
So you can only ever get the responses that you want to look for,
and not only of the users to type in anything they want.
Okay,
see you in the next lecture.